hello it's scott manley here it has been
a week since the perseverance rover
landed on mars
and sent back its first images from its
hazard cams
to which many people responded by saying
this is a two billion dollar spacecraft
why is it only sending
black and white images and of course yes
those first images were black and white
but for the first time those hazard
cameras on a mars rover
are in fact color so this is a bit of a
step forward i want to talk about
like how color cameras and imaging
technology actually works in spacecraft
because
strangely enough perseverance is one of
the first
uh spacecraft to actually have color
sensors in such
quantity because you know what there's
really good engineering reasons
to use monochrome sensors and you to
understand this
uh you we got to compare cameras to what
we carry around with us every day right
many of us have something like this this
is an iphone x it has
a pair of cameras in it and they have 12
megapixel sensors on them
now imaging sensors you are basically
little microchips that are you're
created in fabrication facilities
and what they'll do is they'll have a
layer which
when it gets hit by a photon it knocks
an electron out and then that electron
builds up with its buddies in a little
capacitor to create a small amount of
electric charge
and then at some point you can read out
that electrical charge
as a value and convert that into an
image
now these photodiodes are not color
sensitive
so what you'll then do is you'll have
filters that sit on top
that mean that say only red gets through
so you'll get red pixels
blue or green right and
for consumer cameras what they do is
they have a an array of filters called a
bare mask it's named after the person
invented them so
if you imagine your sensor is covered by
lots of tiny little filters and
typically
you'll find them in blocks of four so
you'll have like red green and blue
and maybe the fourth one could either be
another green or a white or
there's many different kinds but the
point is your image sensor now has
color applied to all these pixels and to
be clear
12 megapixel sensor doesn't mean you
have 36
megapixels of color of actual sensors
because the color data is at a different
resolution from the
actual luminance data because your eyes
are actually
not that good at detecting detail in
color
and i could make a great comparison but
you know what it would probably be
ruined by the fact that video codecs and
image codecs just simply account for the
fact that your vision
is really bad at seeing color resolution
so yeah these
all these pixels they go into something
called a d mosaicing process
which renders out and collects the color
and creates these nice images that we
can then share on our favorite social
media
so anyway that is the sort of consumer
level sensor
but on a spacecraft there might be cases
where you don't want to have this this
color support because think about it
you're putting little color filters over
all your pixels that means you're
throwing away
photons that would otherwise create
imagery if you want to have
the most sensitive imager then
getting rid of that filter means you can
have shorter shutter rates or better
signal to noise ratio depending upon
where you're going and actually also say
you're working on something like a
hazard camera system that's going to be
doing
stereographic imaging then you might
not need that color in fact that color
might make your algorithms harder
so you would go with monochrome imagers
truthfully though the reason why
curiosity
had mainly monochrome cameras was
because
most of the cameras were designed for
the mars exploration rovers and they
just
copied those designs over whereas
perseverance
they had to pretty much redesign all the
cameras because
getting the parts to build these old
camera designs was getting harder and
harder so they went with
new engineering cameras using
off-the-shelf parts and
they decided finally color was something
they could go for in this case
so yeah perseverance most of the
engineering cameras are off the shelf
color you know sensors with bare masks
and your custom lenses but the
science cameras those use a completely
different system
you see yeah if you're taking images of
stuff maybe you want to have that high
signal to noise
um but yeah for their size cameras what
they do is they use
global filters so they have a wheel that
lets them select
different color filters and apply that
to the whole sensor
so they will select the reds filter take
a picture green
take a picture blue take a picture and
then merge those all together
into one higher quality image this is
great
because it means you can no longer no
longer get any weird issues with color
resolution being different from
luminance resolution but also
having a filter wheel with only three
filters is kind of lousy isn't
like it's a wasted opportunity you could
fit so many more filters on there
and of course science cameras do this
you'll get
filters that cover the infrared range
filters that cover ultraviolet you'll
get
narrow band filters that look for
specific
elements and so you can build up images
of these scientifically interesting
things and of course then
construct false color images using this
data
so that's the way that most astronomical
or spacecraft images have been taken in
deep space
if you look at galileo cassini voyager
all of these cul the color images taken
by these spacecraft have used filter
wheels
now there is a slight problem with this
in that because you're taking
three images in sequence if anything
changes between that's
that then you will get false color and
that's generally not a problem on say
mars because
it's very easy to get a rock to sit
still to you know take its portrait
in deep space is a little harder because
you're moving
and you might have slightly different
viewpoints between targets
so since i'm mentioning voyager i should
also point out that voyager
was from the old era where they didn't
have solid-state image detectors for the
cameras instead they used
vidicon tubes so these are the way old
tv cameras used to operate
they have uh obviously have an image
plane
where the photons knock electrons out
they accumulate as a charge
but instead of reading out with wires
you're reading it out with an electron
beam that scans across this
and i guess they read out the signal
that way so that's how
old cameras used to operate and they
were really hard to calibrate and they
were fragile and
everything else but nasa moved over to
solid state imagers in the 80s
and never looked back and i guess i
should also point out that there's
two main types of solid state sensors
there's ccds and cmos
and perseverance is one of the first
nasa spacecraft in deep space to really
heavily use cmos sensors for its
engineering cameras
the names really don't tell you very
much one's called one ccd means charge
coupled device
cmos means complementary metal oxide
semiconductors
which is actually just the way they
manufacture it
not the way it's done i prefer the term
active pixel
uh sensors um and so
what you have again is these little
image photodiodes that collect
charge but in a cmos sensor
you read it out by having the
electronics that sits
next to the pixel there's a little
amplifier there on the wire that goes to
the edge
and so you can ask each of these things
to read out
its value just like you'd be reading out
memory except you're reading out an
analog
value right with ccds
they don't have the electronics right
next to the sensors instead
they have the amplifiers readout along
the very edge of the chip
but they have the ability to copy the
charge from
one pixel to the next pixel so what they
can do
is read out a pixel at the edge and then
step all the pixels along
and then read out the next pixel so they
stack these along push them off
and then read those out and i guess the
advantage of ccd in this case
is that you don't have to spend space on
your image plane
for all these like extra electronics
those are all out of the plane so you
can get
better imaging sensitivity you know more
of your sensor is
sensors there are other advantages in
that like if you want to cool your
sensor
way down for say getting really good
infrared
then that might actually break certain
electronics there so it's better
to so that that makes that impossible
but really these days
cmos is everywhere almost all the
advantages in terms of signal to noise
that
ccd once enjoyed have faded faded away
because the consumer market is so
powerful for developing good
high-tech stuff however
there is a class of color imager which
are imager in general which really
benefits
from and their ability to move
image you know data around while they're
taking their photo
so there's a type of imager called a
push broom imager and what this
is is like a scanner or a fax machine or
a photocopier
instead of snapping a full frame in one
shot
what it does is it scans the sensor
across the target
and builds up an image that way and that
works really well
if you have a spacecraft flying over the
surface or orbiting the surface of a
planet
and you're just wanting to take a scan
of the terrain as it moves underneath
you
so that's how a push broom imager works
now you might think then
there's like a single one pixel wide
sensor there that's taking these images
but that
has a problem and that because you're
moving say at five kilometers per second
over mars and you're wanting maybe half
meter resolution
that means your shutter rate would be 1
10 000
of a second otherwise you would get
motion blur
so you can solve this using a ccd where
you have a much wider sensor
and as you move across the surface
you use the ccd's capability to step the
image
across there's tip the recorded image
across the sensor
matching the speed of the vehicle right
and this is how you'll get see these
working there's one that's on mars
reconnaissance orbiter in the high-rise
camera
you'll have see this on lunar
reconnaissance orbiter same thing
and i think it's telling to look at the
high-rise image plane because you can
see these slightly staggered sensors
like that
and they're all reading out their own
individual strips which are then
converted to image but in the middle
you have three of these in parallel
because of course
you want to get color so you're getting
your red green and blue although
in this case it's not actually red green
and blue they're like
they're i can't remember but they're
different but you've got three colors so
they can build up these
sort of true color images
and that's been very successful although
again
because these are slightly different
places they're taking images
at slightly different times and
that means there are actually a few
cases where you can see this and there's
one that was discovered
by doug ellison again where there were
little puffs of smoke or dust being
thrown up
by rocks falling off a cliff
and when they hit the red green and blue
channels on the images
were slightly different times so you
could actually see the animation
of these expanding clouds of dust
yes i mean that's that's one example
another example actually
is the juno cam on the
juno spacecraft now this was a much much
smaller camera that was added
and it was supposed to be for science
outreach and it's produced very
beautiful images but it had to be small
and simple
so instead of having three separate ccds
for
different wavelengths what they did was
they got a monochrome
ccd and they just put different filter
bands over it so there's one section
that's green one that's red one that's
blue and there's one for like
infrared methane bands and because
they can move the data around while
they're taking the photo
they can read this out they can get good
images
and this is it's it's great because of
course it made a very simple camera and
it operates by this sort of cool method
so i guess there's one final thing i
want to mention is that
while we use filters to get red green
and blue there are
theoretically ways to make image sensors
where the entire pixel can respond to
red green
and blue and can differentiate
and this is the technology that sigma
use
in their digital slrs
they use something called the foveon
sensor and
the way it works is you have multiple
layers
of photodiodes in it and
certain basically the way in which or
the depth to which the photons
go before they hit one of these depends
upon its color
so you're gonna get slightly more blue
light at the top and then the blue light
gets filtered out and you get more red
light in the bottom so you have
you can look at the ratios and try to
guess what the colors are and
many people love these cameras they
produce colors are much more true for
some people
however the downside right now is that
they have very very narrow
operating shutter speeds if you
overexpose or underexpose you get very
bad
colors and the other thing is that if
the color differentiation between the
three layers is pretty weak as i
understand it so
you have to sort of turn the saturation
up
and that means you get more signal to
noise or more noise
rather than less signal and that that's
why these cameras haven't really caught
on and
we're still living with you know things
like this which have
really great cameras but they're using
all sorts of optical tricks to hide the
fact that they're not taking
full resolution color and image and
illuminance at the same time so yeah
that's why
most spacecraft have black and white
cameras
still i'm scott manley fly safe
[Music]
you